==Status: In progress
Last updated: 23.03.2026

Why Python was chosen? 
I decided to use Python programming language due to my goal to develop my skills in programming. I chose the Python because it's widely used by programmers to analyze data, task automatization, creating web applications and it is also popular across Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning tasks. 
My goal is to develop my skills in topics related with software development and Artificial Intelligence. This approach will help to create modern and efficient software. 

I use modular and OOP approach in that project. The application consists of 8 modules, each one is responsible for different logic. I decided to separate core logic to smaller modules to avoid huge files with mixed purposes and make it easier to maintain the application files. Writing the code in smaller pieces is also easier and will help me to maintain the code clean and review. 


##### Architecture of "The BIG Library Project"

`database`
`documents`
`gui`
`models`
`program_data`
`services`
`tests`
`utils`

---
##### `database`

This module provides a core logic for working with JSON files. The project has a JSON-base structure. It is made up of 5 python scripts:
1. `json_files_major_services.py`
2. `database_schemes.py`
3. `book_json_file_service.py`
4. `loan_json_file_service.py`
5. `user_json_file_service.py`

`json_files_major_services.py` - This file is designed to manage basic files operations in consistent, safe and schema-compliant approach. 
	It provides interface to:
	- load and save data 
	- validate records against a defined schema
	- add, update or delete data
	- generate backup files

`database_schemes.py` - This script defines the database schema. It holds parameters for users, books, book loans and reservations. Using the schema all records in the file will have the same set of parameters. 

`book_json_file_service.py` - This module provides a service for managing book data in JSON file. It is used to maintain the library's book collection in a consistent and safe way. It supports adding, retrieving, updating, and deleting book entries.

`loan_json_file_service.py` - This module provides a service for managing loans data in JSON file. It supports adding new loans, retrieving individual records, listing loans, updating loan details, and deleting loan entries. It is used to maintain the loans operations in a consistent and safe way.

`user_json_file_service.py` - This module provides a service for managing users data in JSON file. It offers simple helpers to load, add, query, update, and delete users. 


---
##### `documents`

This module contains project related files and project documentation. 

---
##### `gui`

In this module I store the Python scripts with code of the Graphic User Interface. 

---
##### `models`

This module is made up of models widely used in the project. It holds model of book, loans and for users. This module supports and implements Object-Oriented Programming which is a basic approach in this application. 

---
##### `program_data`

In this module I placed all JSON files necessary for storing the project data. All operations designed in database module are implemented to operate on those files. This module contains 4 core JSON files to separate data related to program users, loans, and book data.

---
##### `services`

This module is built to manage all crucial services of the Library application. I designed 4 service scripts in this module.

`authorisation_service.py` - This module script handles users authorization including login, logout and permissions checks.

`book_service.py` -  It's designed for managing book operations like adding, editing, searching, sorting, deleting, and displaying a book. 

`loan_service.py` - This module is prepared for managing loan operations like borrowing, returning, viewing loans, checking books availability etc.

`user_service.py` - In this module we can find logic for user services like creating user, managing user type, creating unique ID of user, etc.

---
##### `tests`

This module is dedicated to tests designed to perform required tests during software manufacturing. Tests are important part of software development. I split tests to prepare test service scripts that are stored in services directory. 

On early stage I planned unit test. Once they will be ready and passed I will continue developing next stages of the application. I plan to spread the tests in further develop process.

---
##### `utils`

This module is designed to be supportive module for the program. Inside utils module I prepare 3 scripts with configuration, helpers and validators widely used in the application. 